Next, what we can do is, let's use
everything we've just learned about
leveldb to run some of these
examples in the browser.
So, We're gonna need to write some
DOM code, but the main thing that
you change is just instead of requiring
level, you require level-browserify.
And then you'll get a shim
that works in the browser.
But you have to use a compiler
like browserify to do that.
I'm gonna use budo which requires
browserify behind the scenes.
Now, IndexedDB is the database that
the browser uses to make this all work.
IndexedDB is extremely complicated and
it's not easy to use,
it's not easy to think about.
I've written some IndexedDB
based things before.
And it took me so
long just to like parse through all
of this up to MDN documentation about
like how to even set it up correctly.
It's not pleasant.
So if you can,
I think this way is much simpler, and
you can have persistence in the browser,
which is really nice if you wanna build
things like offline web applications.
And if you wanna do replication between
your clients and the servers so
that you can have really fast queries,
because you can just query things that
are already on someone's computer without
hitting network at all, zero latency.
All right, so let's go ahead and do that.
So I'm gonna make a new
directory called browser.
And, We can just go ahead and stick
some stuff in the browser in IndexedDB.
So now instead of requiring level,
just do level-browserify,
everything else is the same.
So you still pass in a string to level,
but instead of a filename,
this is sort of like a database name.
So IndexedDB has this notion of
a database name that this maps to.
So you just put whatever you want in that.
I don't think I've ever had an app where
I had multiple database names at the same
time, but
this is something that you might need.
So then we can do things like, maybe we'll
just build a little counter application.
So I'm gonna load a library for
doing some DOM stuff.
And we'll just kind of recreate
the simple counter example but it will be
persistent in the browser, without using
cookies and without using local storage.
So we can actually expand this demo to
be pretty comprehensive if we wanted to.
Okay, so
the first thing we're gonna have to do,
I'm gonna just make some
quick DOM scaffolding.
You can, This is just my standard song and
dance for doing that.
That's just gonna make a div and
stick it in the body so
that I don't have to like have
any extra HTML kicking around,
just like throw a script tag between
some body tags and you're good to go.
You don't have to do DOM ready or
anything like that.
Then I'm gonna have an update function
which I will call immediately.
And that's gonna take different
variables that represent the state, and
it's just gonna render them.
It's kind of like a really extremely
simplified version of Redux architecture.
We'll be talking a lot
more about that tomorrow.
So, Mostly using this really nifty
feature called template strings.
So you can use dollar sign in brackets
to kind of put variables in there,
sort of a built in templating
engine that the DOM has now.
And this bit,
the tag template string makes it so that
the html syntax is parsed into
real DOM nodes behind the scenes.
All kind of and aside, but so
what we can do is I'll make a button,
make an onclick event.
And it'll say CLICK ME.
It's a good thing for
button to say, I think.
And then we'll have a counter
variable in an h1 tag.
So I'm gonna define counts to be 0 or
maybe a question mark
will be a good value for
count until we've actually gotten
the value from the database.
It's kind of in an inconsistent state.
So what I can do now is call db.get,
For counts.
And just like we've been doing,
I can now do,
Count = value or 0 and
call the update function again,
which will just rerender the page
using some DOM diffing tricks.
All right, so the next thing that we need
to do is define an onclick function.
So onclick function should
increment the count.
So, it should do count++, and
then it should also save that value.
So, it should do db.put count.
The new value for count?
Why don't I go ahead and
put all of this with valueEncoding JSON so
we're not gonna get 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1?
And then listen for errors.
If there's an error, we probably wanna
know about it, let me just do like that.
Otherwise, we wanna update the DOM
with the new value of the counter.
And so when I refresh the page,
the first thing it should do
is print the question mark.
And then as soon as this
database call finishes,
we should see the previous count
if everything's working correctly.
I think this is all that we need.
So I'm gonna go ahead and,
I don't know if I remembered to
install everything exactly but
I can run this with budo.
So you can get this program by
doing npm i -g budo if you like.
And then you have a program where you
can just run some JavaScript code
that's gonna run in the browser, and you
can require packages and things from npm.
So long as they run in the browser,
it should all work.
Now, I should be able to run budo
on our file main.js that we ran.
So it's gonna spin up our web server and
everything locally and
just stick our script tag in
between body and slash body,
which is pretty much all you need for
most of this kind of stuff.
All right, so if I go to that URL,
I see 0 and it says CLICK ME.
That seems good so far.
If click it, 1, 2, 3, 4 as expected.
So now the big test will be if I reload
the page, is it gonna be still at 32?
Hopefully it will but we'll see.
Refresh, still at 32, great, and so
now we have persistence in the browser.
And in fact,
if I close the browser all together,
that was actually an incognito window.
So let me load Chrome not
in incognito window and
then you can also see that,
I'll just click it a bunch of times.
You can refresh,
you can close the browser,
you can open the browser again and,
We're back where we started.
So I can refresh, refresh, refresh,
click, click, click, click, etc.
And so all of the same kinds of codes that
we've now been doing with node will
work in our browser code as well.